Original D-CAD-L 2D Tutorial
----------------------------

The purpose of this tutorial is to provide a description of the
Dietrich’s D-CAD-L 2D drawing software, which is a part of the
Dietrich’s construction software system.

This tutorial focuses on how to use the D-CAD-L 2D drawing software and
how to set up customized drawing properties, such as page layouts and
dimension style. Methods to draw, edit and dimension drawings will be
explained with the help of a step-by-step sample drawing done with
D-CAD-L 2D. Additional functions, such as layers and libraries, will be
explained as well.


Dietrich’s provides a freeware of the drawing program D-CAD 2D. This
fully functional 2D CAD Program is called D-CAD-L. D-CAD-L can be used
to read and change D- CAD 2D drawings. Therefore, this tutorial can also
be applied for the use of D-CAD 2D.

The only limitation of D-CAD-L is that it is not possible to insert
drawings stored in the Dietrich’s construction software.

Please visit the Dietrich’s homepage to download the software and for
further information
(\ `www.dietrichs.com/en <https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.dietrichs.com/en)&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1711141313829139&usg=AOvVaw0J6P5Urx5zq0zOBol1qMeH>`__\ `). <https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.dietrichs.com/en)&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1711141313829398&usg=AOvVaw0pLMdrZiRC4yC5Bp3Rbnly>`__

First steps
-----------

First, an overview of the general D-CAD-L 2D operating mode shall be
provided.

To be able to draw with the plan software, at least one view port is
necessary. View ports can be created by starting a new drawing. However,
it is always possible to change view ports and to add or delete them.

Furthermore, every view port has its own scale. When starting a new view
port, it always asks for the scale. If the scale of a view port is
changed, all objects in it will be changed.

However, the font size is always shown in the absolute size. That means,
if a font size of 3mm is chosen, the heights of the letters will always
be 3mm, independent of the drawing scale. The Font size is settable; on
paper or absolute.

In addition, it is possible to draw beside view ports on an unlimited
drawing area. For that purpose, the zoom function has to be activated (7
View ports 🡪 8 Full screen). A green box shows the position of the view
port. Therefore, the view port shows a section (cut out) of the drawing
area.

The following chapters explain how to start the D-CAD 2D drawing
software and how to organize, draw and edit drawings.

How to start D-CAD-L 2D
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Start D-CAD-L 2D by using the icon:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The icon  to start D-CAD-L 2D can be found on your desktop after
installing the program.

Open Drawing
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here you can open an existing or start a new one.

New Drawing
^^^^^^^^^^^

After having started D-CAD-L 2D, a window pops up to ask for the paper
size and the orientation of a new drawing. Select either a drawing
template or individual settings.

Drawing template: A drawing template with all the settings completed can
be selected. Using a template, the other settings will be greyed out.

The following chapters will explain how to save customized drawing
templates.

Drawing info: Here you can type in for example (garage) for you
information.

Printing device: It is possible to select an output device (printer) for
the drawing. The list contains all printers available on your system.
The selected printer will have an effect on the list of paper sizes.

“User defined formats” can be selected if there is no printer installed
or the drawing should not be specified yet. How to create user defined
formats will be explained later.

Paper size: The available paper sizes and the border settings for each
page are taken from the printer device previously selected.

Orientation: The paper orientation can be chosen, such as landscape and
portrait.

Drawing Header: For the header, select either your address, including
the project information, or only your address. (In PlanCad-L you can
only chose Address.)

Create frame: It is possible to create a frame automatically around the
drawing in thick or thin lines.

View ports: View ports are spaces on paper that contain drawing objects.
Each view port has its own properties, such as scale, coordinate system
and layers.

One, two or four view ports can be arranged automatically on the
drawing. It is possible to add and remove view ports later on.

D-CAD 2D screen



How to create a title block
---------------------------

The following sections explain how to create title blocks with
customized labelling fields. In addition to that, a description of how
to insert pictures such as company logos will be provided.

The title block, which will be created in this tutorial, has three lines
and two columns and the overall size will be 10.0cm x 1.8cm. The
labelling fields as shown in the picture below will be created.

Title block

New view port:
--------------

First of all, a new view port has to be inserted, as title blocks should
be saved in their own view ports. Having its own view port, the title
block is independent from the drawing scale of the other view ports and
will always appear in the same size. It is recommended to use the scale
1/1 for this view port.

Window settings window

Text and keywords:
------------------

D-CAD-L 2D provides the possibility of using keywords. Keywords are
placeholders for drawing information, such as the project number and the
date of creation.

If the keywords are outdated, they can be updated by typing 6 Text 🡪 9
Update keywords.

Text window

Save title block to the library:
--------------------------------

Title blocks can be saved to the library in order to use them in other
drawings as well. The library is split up into two sections:

-  The first section contains drawing sections and will be explained
   later.
-          Drawing sections are objects that can be put into an existing
   view port such as furniture, people, cars and trees.
-  The second section contains view ports including their corresponding
   drawing objects, such as title blocks and entire drawings.

Library – view ports window

Import image:
-------------

This chapter explains how to insert pictures onto the drawing, such as
company logos. Supported files are EMF, WMF, PNG, BMP, JPEG, and GIF...

Import picture window

Imported picture size window

Images can be moved and deleted later on by typing 7 View ports 🡪 9
Image / RTF🡪 2 Move / 3 Delete.



